---
layout: post
title:  "OpenDays 2014: the new direction"
date:   2014-06-14 23:00:00
categories: News
---

The dust has settled for this year's OpenDays.
The event gets bigger and better every year, and 
it was an intense and action packed event.

Lot's of things to from dozens of talks, and lot's of people to meet and share experiences.
Most important of all, it's great to meet in person all these people form the community
we communicate with almost every day.

The strategy and direction for Odoo/Openerp is a long time discussion topic.
The OpenDays is excellent to better understand why previous decisions have been made,
and what to expect from the future.


### Strategy and direction ###

In a nutshell, the main ideas were:

  - **ERP will still the core business for Odoo.**
    But it's more than an ERP, it provides integrated business apps.

  - **Sharp growth of the number of users** is the main business goal.
    The number of paying users will naturally follow that.

  - **Bringing onboard many more developers and designers** as a mean to increase the user base.
    So supporing the community, fostering collaboration, and improving documentation will be priorities.

  - **Integrated CMS and ecommerce** are important for leveraging the value of core ERP apps,
    but also to attract to Odoonew users from the immense CMS/eccomerce landscape.


[Fabien Pinckaers](http://www.slideshare.net/openobject/keynote02) keynote.
<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/35515755" width="427" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px 1px 0; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe>

I'll go into more detail on my takeaways.


### OpenERP is now Odoo, but the focus is still ERP ###

  - There is a strategic bet on the new CMS and ecommerce features.
    But the company knows that it's the ERP backend that makes it different from competitors.

  - The frontend features will not bring revenue by themselves - anynone can create a online shop
    just with the free plan.

  - But tapping at the huge CMS market will bring more users.
    Some of them will eventually become paying customers, upgrading
    to take better advantage of the backend ERP apps.

  - CMS and ecommerce aim at exploding the number of users, and the revenue will still be driven
    from the "classic" ERP features.


### Smart marketing ###

This was for me the best news I got from the event: Alexandre Vandermeersch is the new
Chief Marketing Officer and I believe he made a spot on diagnostic: the best marketing
for Odoo is content marketing.

Producing content for end users and developers: documentation, tutorials, white papers.
Helping new people to get up and running faster with Odoo will support the overall strategy
for user base growth, and it will be what the marketing team will be devoted to.

More and better content, smart marketing, and great news.


### Developers, developers, developers! ###

This was the line used by Antony Lesuisse.
Odoo wants more developers working with the product.
More developers means more modules and features, more mind share, more deployments,
and in the end of the day, more users.

So, the R&D will also put an effort on making Odoo more atractive to developers.
This was determinant for the move to Github.
It was not specifically mentioned, but I believe the new API will also paly an important role here:
I heard some people mention it has similarities with Django.

Also important here are the new "data" modules. These are just like regular modules,
except they can't have python files in them.
The news is that these will be installable in the Odoo SaaS, using a command line deploy instruction.

These are meant to provide website themes and components, but they can also contain data, XML views
and even create models and fields (adding record on *ir.model* and *ir.model.fields*).


### How to burn 10 million dollars ###

This was actually said by Fabien when presenting the priorities for v9.
While Fabien promises another revolution for v9, the priorities presented
are mostly about rounding the corners for the user interface and for the
the v8 novelties: website builder and new API.

Right now, Odoo feels like having two user interfaces - one for frontend and another for the backend.
Another investment area is to bring the frontend website capabilities to the backend views.
This alone will make a huge difference for v9 so I'm really looking forward for it.

Finally, for v9 there will also be an investing in the accounting area:
the goal is for the core to support the account needs for 8 major countries,
without third party localizations. In my opinion it's a start to address the localization
issues. I still feel that the Partners and community should be given the main role here,
but still it's acknowledging the problem and having steps forward.



The presentations are being uploaded to [Slideshare](http://www.slideshare.net/openobject)
and the main theater talks were also recorded on [video](https://www.youtube.com/user/OpenERPonline)
But you probably already know this, so maybe I could share something better:
the main messages I got regarding Odoo's strategy and direction.

